I seek attention from others     I avoid attention from others
I like ideas that are easy to understand     I like ideas that are complex
I put my needs first     I put others' needs ahead of my own
I am often disorganized     I keep myself organized
I value my social status     I value my privacy
I enjoy activities that are familiar     I enjoy experiencing new things
I like to cooperate     I like to compete
I work until the result meets my high standards     I work until the result is good enough
I choose my friends carefully     I make new friends quickly
I like to try to innovate     I like to use trusted methods
I am skeptical of others     I trust others
I follow a plan     I act on impulse
I like to lead others     I like to work independently
I like learning practical skills     I like learning about ideas and theories
I enjoy taking credit for my achievements     I enjoy sharing success with other people
I am always prepared     I am often unprepared
I keep my cool     I show my enthusiasm
I trust traditional values     I question traditional values
I make sure everyone is taken care of     I look out for myself
I work first, play later     I play first, work later -- work, then play ... play, then work
I keep things to myself     I speak up
I focus on reality     I use my imagination
I grieve with others     I am not easily affected by sad stories
I spend my time pursuing my goals     I spend my time enjoying life

T/F
Being around lots of people energizes me     
I am full of new ideas     
It's nice when other people know that I care about their feelings     
I prefer to follow a schedule     
People think I'm quiet     (maybe too quiet)
I have a vivid imagination     
I make decisions without being swayed by emotions     
I’d rather go with the flow than have a set schedule     
I enjoy chatting with new acquaintances     
I like to do things differently, even if I’m not sure it will work     
I'm a sensitive person     
I make plans and stick to them
I can talk to strangers     
I’d rather try something new than do things the same old way     
I wish other people would be more logical     
I don't like sticking to a routine     
I enjoy being the center of attention     
It's hard to understand an idea until I see it in action     
I will be there for people when they are feeling sad     
I like to finish all my chores before I do something fun     
It's really nice to meet new people     
I enjoy hearing new ideas     
It's best to be totally objective when making a decision     
I enjoy following a procedure
I enjoy spending time thinking quietly to myself     
I’d rather focus on the big picture than the details     
I like to help others with their personal problems     
I leave things unfinished     
I try not to draw attention to myself     
I have a rich fantasy life     
I go out of my way to make people feel at ease     
My hobbies and interests are somewhat unusual     
I like to start tasks in advance, so that I have plenty of time to finish     
I have simple tastes


Calm     Energetic
Shy     Outgoing
Introspective     Talkative
Reserved     Enthusiastic
Quiet     Active
Supportive     Logical
Agreeable     Critical
Sensitive     Tough
Sympathetic     Objective
Compassionate     Competent
Organized     Spontaneous
Disciplined     Carefree
Responsible     Flexible
Reliable     Adaptable
Methodical     Casual
Traditional     Innovative
Factual     Imaginative
Conventional     Creative
Realistic     Idealistic
Practical     Intellectual

I tend to...
Have a vision for how the world could be
Look to the past to follow traditions

It's most important to me to have a job that...
Challenges my intellect
Encompasses my personal values

I am at my best when...
I work independently and organize my own process
I rally a group of people to achieve a goal together

I am most satisfied when...
I can make sense of a complex idea
I see a complex project through to completion


Come on, it gets lonely in the psychometrics lab...



Secure
The instinct to preserve life. Those with the secure primary instinct are concerned with "nesting and nurturing."
They are keenly aware of their environment, noticing its temperature, safety, and cleanliness. They are inclined to make their surroundings healthy and comfortable. They enjoy nourishing themselves and others physically, such as with food or clothing.
They prefer durable, material goods over intangible entities. They value independence and respect other people's privacy. In relationships, they seek trust, loyalty, and stability. They tend to preserve memories, traditions, and family heirlooms.

Sexual
The instinct to pass on life. Those with the sexual primary instinct are devoted to transmitting something meaningful to future generations, whether it is their genes or their ideas.
It also means they wish to become "one" with another entity, which they achieve by seeking intense, original experiences that fully engage them. This tendency manifests as their intense desire to form intimate, one-on-one connections with people and as their passionate pursuit of hobbies and interests.
Without satisfying these desires, they feel incomplete. They may be good at drawing attention to themselves and their ideas.

Social
The instinct to belong to a larger whole. Those with the social primary instinct seek to adapt themselves to meet the needs of their group or community.
Aware of how their actions affect others, they wish to increase their inclusion by contributing more and elevating their significance. They are highly perceptive of people's positions and relationships, and can navigate the social circle to obtain protection and influence.
They enjoy being involved in other people's lives. They are good at evaluating the behaviors of other people, enabling them to promote group members or ideas that they feel deserve recognition.


Sexual primary

"To understand the mind and soul, and to find the perfect union." 

Appearance: brooding, intense, immersed, fantastical. 
Role: mystic, wanderer, soul mate, lover, seducer. 

This type is on an eternal search for the missing piece. They channel their sexual energy inwards to explore the imaginations that come from their subconscious. Their ambitions are personal in nature and do not necessarily have a social cause. They often have a naturally seductive, sexual charisma that manifests as a fantastical, erotic playfulness or an untouchable aura to others. They may feel torn between the urge to explore and a secure living. 

In relationships, they may feel conflicted about their intense passion for their partner and their desire to guard themselves from getting hurt. When they find a soul mate, they quietly bond with an exceptional level of intimacy. Once connected, they have difficulty letting go. When anxious or depressed, they may seclude themselves for extended periods, seeking understanding from within. Their sexual tension occasionally manifests as volatile, self-destructive behaviors when stressed.

"To challenge norms and initiate social change." 

Appearance: intense, focused outwards, assertive, subdued aggression. 
Role: champion, pioneer, activist, vigilante, exhibitionist. 

This type seeks to alter the status quo by becoming an agent or symbol of its transformation. They channel their sexual energy and aggression into intimate, one-on-one relationships or into heartfelt political, artistic, or scientific causes. Some find this energy invasive while others find it gravitating. They are often torn between peaceful living and a life dedicated to their passions. Inclined to test the limits, they may support radical views. 

They enjoy challenging others, especially those opposed to their way of expression. They seek to redefine sexuality to reflect their own interpretations. The intimacy they establish with each person is uniquely defined and completes a part of them. They may become spiteful of someone if they were unable to satisfy an intense desire to connect.


Secure primary

"To establish a secure living where I can pursue personal interests." 

Appearance: detached, calm, self-absorbed, wistful. 
Role: soloist, artisan, mercenary, sensualist, hedonist. 

This type is intense within but seem withdrawn to others. They exude a quiet, mysterious aura. They build a fortress of independence and emotional security around themselves, selectively stepping out to seek intimacy and intense experiences. This may create a pull-push effect, in which they draw others in but detach when they feel like they may get hurt. 

In the few interpersonal bonds they form, their loyalty is exceptionally strong, for they value the security the union provides. These bonds are formed at the visceral level, without social formalities. While mostly unaware of a group's social dynamics, they can read individuals with accuracy. Their home is their sanctuary, and they take pride in furnishing their surroundings.

"To build my self-sufficiency, material comfort, and societal role." 

Appearance: calm, polite, steady energy, grounded stance. 
Role: builder, businessman, model citizen, protector, philanthropist. 

This type seeks to achieve a stable, peaceful living. They are diligent about building financial and societal security for themselves and their loved ones. Reserved in nature, they may be sociable out of formality or the desire to secure useful alliances. They are often found in business or volunteer clubs that promote networking. Responsibility and sacrifice are their strong suits. 

Their relationships are based on loyalty and trust, more so than sexual intimacy or passion. Respecting privacy and space in their relationships, they may appear to lack warmth. Beneath the surface, they are deeply committed to their close ones. They live according to their means and dress without making a statement. Their homes and their relationships are stable, neat, and orderly.



Social primary

"To provide security, comfort, and care for others." 

Appearance: energetic but steady, aware, cordial. 
Role: socialite, caregiver, populist, entertainer, events coordinator. 

This type feels most energetic in groups. They are attuned to where they fit within the group's hierarchy and with whom they should make alliances. Valuing fairness and equality, they promote the group's solidarity. Finding security in belonging, they identify with organizations or beliefs that best protect their interests (eg. Church, volunteering clubs, political organizations). In order to increase their status and role within the community, they strive to provide care, comfort, and security for others. 

They form relationships based on trust, loyalty, and social relevancy, more so than sexual intimacy or passion. They may feel awkward or overwhelmed in interactions with little personal boundaries. They often mask this discomfort by being polite or joking. While many retain a sense of privacy, they are immensely caring and dedicated to their close ones.

"To provide mental and emotional stimulation for others." 

Appearance: friendly, enthusiastic, eager, erratic. 
Role: companion, counselor, nurturer, teacher, benevolent leader. 

This type has an incredible ability to bond with people one-on-one, typically bringing out the best in others. They enhance their role and status in society by befriending individuals in the group, often by sharing new, stimulating experiences together. They may customize their behavior to people they are interested in to better connect. In group settings, this tendency may make them uncertain of how to behave, although they are usually promoting the group's harmony under the table. 

They may have difficulty maintaining their bonds when apart, making them appear flighty at times. Some may conform to social norms in order to connect with more people, while others test the boundaries of traditional values to "keep it real". They are usually attuned to new cultural trends.


